---
title: "Coupled magneto-mechanical growth in hyperelastic materials: Surface patterns modulation and shape control in bio-inspired structures"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2025-07-01-JMPS-Coupled
excerpt: 'Keywords: Magneto-mechanical coupling, Growth, Hyperelasticity, Surface patterns, Shape control.'
date: 2025-07-01
venue: 'Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmps.2025.106089'
citation: 'Zhanfeng Li, Yafei Wang, Zuodong Wang, Chennakesava Kadapa, Mokarram Hossain, Xiaohu Yao, Jiong Wang. (2025). &quot;Coupled magneto-mechanical growth in hyperelastic materials: Surface patterns modulation and shape control in bio-inspired structures.&quot; <i>Journal of the Mechanics and Physics of Solids</i>. 200, 106089.'
---

Magneto-mechanical coupling in the growth of soft materials presents challenges due to the complex interactions between magnetic fields, mechanical forces, and growth-induced deformations. While growth modeling has been extensively studied, integrating magnetic stimuli into growth processes remains underexplored. In this work, we develop a 3D governing system for capturing the coupled magneto-mechanical growth behaviors of soft materials. Based on the governing system, we propose a finite element framework, where the robustness and accuracy of the proposed framework are demonstrated through numerical simulations, including the uniaxial loading of a circular tube, a mesh convergence study, and surface pattern evolution. We also conduct experiments on surface pattern modulation in magnetoactive soft materials. Specifically, we fabricate film–substrate samples and apply growth-induced instabilities combined with external magnetic fields to generate tunable surface patterns. To demonstrate the capabilities of our method, we apply our numerical framework to mimic the biological morphogenesis, such as the inversion process of the algal genus Volvox. Our study shows that integrating magneto-mechanical coupling with growth effects allows for flexible control over surface patterns, significantly enhancing the adaptability and responsiveness of soft materials. This work paves the way for innovative designs of adaptive and programmable soft materials, with potential applications in soft robotics, biomimetic structures, and tissue engineering.
